(intriguing music)
- All right, so I'm in the middle
of reviewing these new iPhones,
which are pretty interesting,
but you know, they're new iPhones
so they're iterative.
And then Meta of course decides
to also have an event 'cause it's Techtember
and things just don't stop.
So I put that down for a second.
I fly back out to California,
and what Meta has to show me
is actually shockingly advanced.
Because just 10 months ago, I saw this,
I made a whole video about it.
These are Meta's Orion AR glasses prototypes,
which were super cool
and overlaid software onto the world around you.
But they can never sell these things
because the materials alone cost like 10 grand,
and they're a bit too cumbersome,
and they have a whole separate stick
with a computer in it that's nearby,
and they overheat,
and the battery lasts like an hour.
It was a cool proof of concept
of a bleeding-edge technology
but not a real product.
Now here we are 10 months later,
and they're handing me a finished product
with a price tag and a release date.
And it's these, the Meta Ray-Ban Display,
clever name, I know,
but it's essentially an updated version
of the Meta Ray-Bans,
and it's massively better than the Orion prototype.
Now the main difference with these
is these are a monocular display,
meaning it's only showing up in one eye,
the right eye,
and it's fixed slightly lower
and to the right of the middle of your vision,
but it's still full color, plenty sharp,
42 pixels per degree to be exact,
and more than bright enough to be seen outdoors.
I tried these things outdoors,
gets up to 5,000 nits.
So it's like a real-life little HUD
in the corner of your vision
that you can turn on or off at any time,
and you still control everything
through a neural band on your wrist
that uses surface EMG technology
to read the electrical impulses
going through your arm
as you make different gestures
that you pretty quickly memorize
and can draw discreetly and quietly
with pretty good accuracy.
You can scroll up, scroll down, select,
you can go forward and backward,
and even turn up and down volume
by pinching in the air and twisting slowly.
And as I'm getting to try these,
I just keep thinking,
"The rate of improvement is kind of insane."
For example, the light leak
you might remember from Orion
was very evident.
Like you could see clearly
when someone was looking at something
when they were activated with the Orion glasses.
Now when I pull something up
on the display in these,
it's basically invisible to the outside world.
The light leak is nearly completely gone.
Now of course this is a much smaller field of view,
but it's pretty impressive
that from most angles
there is virtually no way to see
that I'm looking at something
on the screen in these glasses.
Even with the perfect angles,
when the light hits just right,
all you can really tell is that these glasses
do have a waveguide in them
and I seem to be looking off to the side a little bit
and not directly at you, and that's it.
And for the neural band,
the controls have gotten even more refined and precise.
So back when I tried it 10 months ago,
it was pretty good.
But you know, the idea of doing text input
by just drawing letters in midair with your hand
was just an idea.
Now it's an actual feature,
and it's maybe the most reliable,
quickest method of text input
that I've tried with these.
It's absolutely insane.
I was writing whole sentences first try,
quickly, with no errors.
It was nuts.
There's also no separate computer puck necessary for these,
like there was with the prototype.
Everything is self-contained in the glasses,
which are admittedly definitely kind of thick,
you know, a little less crazy than the Orions,
but you can still tell there's some stuff going on
with these if I walk by wearing them.
And they weigh 69 grams.
Nice.
So just as a non-glasses wearer,
they are a little bit heavy,
like they're just heavy enough
to not forget that I'm wearing them,
but they're not super cumbersome in my opinion.
And of course you cannot underestimate
how much aesthetics matter
if you're gonna be wearing this computer on your face.
Like there needs to be some element of "fashion."
And I think they look better in person
than they do on camera.
And there's also two colors, either black or sand,
and they actually come with a matching-colored neural band,
black or sand as well.
Oh, and the charging case.
The charging case is also pure genius.
It can either hold the glasses inside
or you take them out
and it folds down flat in like two seconds
and still has enough room for four more charges of battery.
This did not get enough attention
for how awesome it was,
because it came in the middle of a keynote
that was kind of an absolute disaster
in so many other ways.
But I'm impressed with the charging case.
Now here's the thing,
these Meta Ray-Ban smart glasses
have been out for like four years now
and they have been a hit actually.
They let you talk to Meta's AI
and send messages with your voice
and listen to music.
But I'm fairly confident
that the number-one use of these by far
is to use the built-in cameras
to record POV videos.
So the real question you might be asking is,
"All right, Marques,
what does adding a display into the glasses
actually get you?"
And I was thinking the same thing.
I'm glad you asked, because I have the answers now.
So number one, first and foremost,
you can obviously see the UI of the glasses
instead of just relying entirely on voice commands.
So if you wanna do something in the UI
with the gestures and never speak a word out loud,
that's advantage number one to having a screen.
Number two is you can actually see
the viewfinder of the camera now,
so you can be very sure of exactly what you're capturing
and you can review pictures and videos
after you've taken them.
That's also pretty useful.
Number three, messaging and even video calls
on your glasses are pretty sick.
So if you're in a video call,
you can see the person you're talking to
and the person on the other end
just sees a feed from your forward-facing camera,
just straight POV.
Then number four, maps,
which I think are pretty killer.
I've talked about it with Google Glass.
If you go to navigate somewhere,
you can open up the maps
and then get turn-by-turn directions
and a rotating map that tracks with your head
to match the direction you're facing,
which to someone like me
with a terrible sense of direction is so clutch.
And then number five is subtitling
basically anything you want in the real world.
It uses the beamforming microphones
to specifically listen to whatever's in front of you
and then put that live text on the HUD
of exactly what they're saying.
And it works pretty quickly.
And if that speech is in another language,
it should be able to live translate everything
for you to understand what they're saying.
Again, so clutch,
and this is all being wrapped into a real product
that you can buy this year
with a real price tag that is $800,
which yeah, it's expensive,
it's the price of a whole phone,
but it's actually a little bit less expensive
than I maybe would've guessed
before actually hearing that.
I wouldn't be surprised if Meta
is actually losing money on the hardware here
in an effort to just get them out
and get 'em into people's hands.
But that also conveniently brings us
to maybe the biggest downside of this particular product,
which is that it is Meta.
And that's not a disaster.
I mean, obviously people already like
the Meta Ray-Bans already,
but it also does mean
you still will have the privacy questions
of exactly what data's being collected
and what they do with it.
And then the other thing, I dunno if you noticed,
but every app that you use on these glasses
is strictly first-party stuff.
Like messaging with your friends, that's WhatsApp.
Video calls on the glasses, that's also WhatsApp.
That's not Google Maps, it's their own mapping service,
which I can guarantee won't have the best
real-time traffic info or ratings
like Google Maps has.
And they'll even let you scroll through Instagram Reels
because Meta owns Instagram.
The only exception I saw to this rule
was the music playback was done
through a partnership with Spotify.
But as of right now, or at launch,
there is no app store for these.
It's coming allegedly, but not yet.
But overall, though,
I just can't help but be super impressed
with how quickly they have been moving forward with this.
Like I said, less than a year ago
was that crazy prototype
with the separate computer
and the $10,000 bill of sale.
And now here we are, it's just,
it's moving so quickly.
And I know we're expecting other entries
into the smart-glasses space
probably within the next couple months,
I think from Samsung and from Google
and maybe some others.
But as of right now,
these are the best smart glasses
with a screen that I've tried, hands down.
And you know, the sad thing is
you wouldn't really get that
from the presentation at all.
The keynote was so brutal,
mainly because so many of the live demos
that they tried went about as poorly
as they possibly could have.
I mean, I watched it live.
If you get to watch that back,
you'll know what I'm talking about.
And it's unfortunate
because the product is so cool,
and I gotta give them props
for trying to do real demos
instead of faking everything, I guess.
But yeah, this isn't gonna be convincing anyone.
- What do I do first?
- [AI] You've already combined the base ingredients,
so now grate a pear to add to the sauce.
- What do I do first?
- [AI] You've already combined the base ingredients,
so now grate the pear and gently combine it
with the base sauce.
- All right, I think the Wi-Fi might be messed up.
- [AI] Pause WhatsApp video call.
- There we go.
(notification chiming) Uh-oh.
Well, let's see what happened there.
(notification chiming) That's too bad.
I don't know what happened.
The irony of the whole thing is
that you spend years making technology,
and then the Wi-Fi on the day kind of catches you.
- So yeah, there's a distinct lack of good videos
of people using this tech and these headsets right now.
But I'm predicting that when these actually do come out
in a few weeks,
that we're gonna see a pretty significant wave
of all this new content
of the cool stuff people get to do with this
from the live-captioning to the maps
to the AI stuff that it's capable of, all at once.
People are just gonna start flooding the internet
with content about it.
But yeah, seeing how fast these improved really
actually for the first time in a while,
it got me thinking about if it could bring us closer
to a post-smartphone world,
which is obviously still super far away.
These still need a smartphone to connect to, to work.
But you know, imagine a world
where you're walking around on a scenic hike
and you see a cool scene
and instead of taking your phone out
and putting a computer between you and the scene,
you just, you know, snap the picture on your glasses
and just appreciate it.
Seems nice, right?
Then again, would you rather be talking to someone
and see them check their phone
or their smartwatch real quick,
and it's kind of rude, but then they're over it?
Or you're talking to someone
who's maybe wearing some glasses like this
and every once in a while they just kind of glance down
and to the right a little bit
while they're talking to you
and it's subtle,
but you don't know if they're actually
paying attention to you or not.
Something to think about.
Anyway, thanks for watching.
Catch you very soon in the next one.
Peace.
(intriguing music)