I want to get this city where it's functioning. There's too many things that are broken in the city and make it
really difficult to live here. What has being a reporter taught you not
only about New Orleans, but about the narrative? I got to see, you know, some of the best and most wonderful things
about our city, but I also unfortunately had to see some of the most um tragic
parts of New Orleans, including I was in the state legislature as a
state rep for eight years and now I've been on the council for more than seven, so 15 plus years and elected office and
in public service here in the city of New Orleans. This isn't just a piece of paper. This isn't just a random
committee meeting, a random vote. I mean, all of these things have real life implications.
Helena Moreno is the Emmy-winning journalist turned city council president now running for mayor to deliver a
cleaner, safer, and more accountable New Orleans for everyone. Being a state representative, what are some of your
core values and how do you apply that in how do you represent? One thing that you have to if you're going to be a good
public servant that you have to do and force yourself to do is that you are
going to have to tell your friends no
Who is Helena? Tell me a little bit about who you are, where do you come from, and how did you even get here?
Oh, wow. My journey here was uh not something I would have ever expected when I was a young person. I mean, all
that I ever wanted to do and be when I was in in high school and even before that is all I wanted to do and be was a
news reporter. A news reporter and anchor. That's that that was it. And I would, you know, in high school watch
all the news reporters and all the anchors and knew everybody and like that's who I that's that that was it. That's who I wanted to be. Um, which was
kind of an interesting career that I chose because I had a lot of problems with reading and writing because my first language is Spanish. I was born in
Mexico, so my first language is Spanish. So, it always took me like a long time to, you know, get get my reading levels
up to where they needed to be. But still, journalism and being a reporter was all that I wanted. And so then, you
know, went to went to college and at and and as I graduated, I put all my tapes
together and this was a time when you had to put them all on VHS, okay? So like your your your real actual tapes
together to send out to go get a job and I sent out like 82 tapes all across the
country. I was willing to move wherever wherever the job was, right? And I I sent out 82 tapes and I was so looking
forward to getting that first job and Brent, nobody called me back. 82 things. Nobody called me back. So I was like,
"Oh my gosh." You know, and this is a time when like the haters get in your head and they're like, "See, I told you you weren't going to do this. You
weren't going to Yeah. content creator." No, there was no Tik Tok at the time. There was no Tik Tok. So, you know, I
kept pushing, kept calling people, kept sending more tapes. And I got a job in
Savannah, Georgia. Okay. So, didn't know anybody in Savannah, had never been to Savannah, Georgia, but I was like, I got
to get my foot in the door to make my dream come true. Got a job in Savannah, Georgia. I said, I'm so excited to have
this job. They sent me out on my first live shot. I'd never done live shots before and I was terrible. And they were
like, "We never want you to do live shots again." Um, but what was great about Savannah is it really taught me,
you know, how to be a good reporter, how to do the live shots, how to edit, how to put content together, how to be a good communicator. And that's when um
WDSU called and they said, "We want to bring you to New Orleans to be a reporter." And so I I started at WDSU
doing the five, six, and 10 o'clock news as a reporter. And then I was promoted to the investigative team. Um really
working on a variety of different issues. You know, looking a lot into city hall in New Orleans at the time.
And then from that point on, I was promoted to the anchor desk and I was roughly I don't know, I want to say mid
to late 20s. So you know, by that age, I had accomplished my dream or what I
thought was my dream, right? What I thought was my dream. And you know, um, now we're coming up on the anniversary
of Hurricane Katrina, and it was Hurricane Katrina that really changed my life in my direction and
brought me into public service. And, and what I mean by that is, so I'm on the
I'm on I'm a news anchor, you know, the morning anchor, and Hurricane Katrina's coming. So, they send like the whole
main anchor crew, all the main people, they sent them off to safety in Jackson, Mississippi. Okay. and they had me here,
Margaret or here, like the whole the whole morning team stayed here along with the reporters. So then we have of
course this horrific storm here for the aftermath of the storm. Um, and then in
that year that followed, I felt like my job as a reporter now was one that
wasn't just about writing and telling a story, but it was really about bringing people home and and making sure that
that those who were in charge of rebuilding our city were held accountable. And so I felt like I had
this kind of deeper purpose in um in my role, but also a deeper purpose in helping my community.
But then when you know roughly 2008 something like that, end of 2007, we started to get back to kind of the old
ways of TV news, the promotional stuff, how do you get the most ratings and that kind of thing. And that's when I really said,
I mean, I don't know if I want to do this for the rest of my life. I felt like I needed to do more for my city, more for my community, which is why I
made the decision at the time, and some thought it was foolish to leave my dream career, dream job.
Leave my dream job. I mean, I was a young woman making, you know, good money
at my dream job, what I'd always wanted to do since a kid, but I left that so that I could go into a life of public
service. And at that time, um, I said, "Let's go big or go home." So, I ran for United States Congress. At that time,
the voters did send me home. And so, uh, you know, I was like, that was a real punch in the stomach. But uh I at that
time though had made these connections and had different really strong women around me who said you know Helena this
is just a part of your journey and if public service is where you want to go there is a spot for you.
And Mary Landrew was one of like the big people who always helped and and supported me. Diana Baja. Oh my gosh,
what a what an anchor, you know. And so, um, I ran for the state legislature in
2010 in a special election and won and got into the state legislature and that's really how my career public
service then began. That's really, really interesting. And I didn't know the detail of of your
history and becoming a public servant. What has being a reporter taught you not only about New Orleans but about the
narrative and how things are portrayed versus how things actually are?
Right. Well, one of the things that obviously being a reporter um taught me is I got to see, you know, some of the
best and most wonderful things about our city, all the amazing festivals and celebrating amazing people who we have
in New Orleans, but I also unfortunately had to see some of the most um tragic
parts of New Orleans, including, you know, being at numerous um countless
really murder scenes and being there when, you know, a loved one or the mother of a victim arrives to see that
it's her son or daughter who is deceased. Um, and that never leaves you,
you know, and so having that that deep understanding and and seeing that kind of tragedy kind of puts you in a in a in
a mind frame that when you're in public service, it's these issues that we talk about. These aren't just issues that
you're seeing on paper. There's real people, you know, that that that you're impacting with whatever piece of
legislation you're changing. And that's when I got into the legislature. That's something that I always tried to tell some of our young legislators who got
there that these bills that you're reading, these stacks of bills that you get that just have quick little changes,
you know, here and there, this isn't just a piece of paper. This isn't just a random committee meeting, a random vote.
I mean, all of these things have real life implications. So whether it's an issue on criminal justice, whether it's
an issue on, you know, how we uh look at healthare, whe all those things impact
people's lives. And I think that that, you know, seeing so much of our city as
a reporter really has helped me always realize that that then the work that I do has implications on on people in our
city and and on the state level, people across the state. Yeah. And it's it's funny because when I was in college, they would look at a
political science major as like a easy major or something that's not really has that much impact. And then you would
have let's say like a nursing major or something. Okay, it's a hard degree. This is you're the criminal or creme of
the campus essentially. And one of my professors told me that if a nurse makes one mistake, it can
result in the death of one life. But if a state's representative makes one mistake, it can result in the death of
countless lives. Absolutely. So the responsibility of representing on the state level is very
very difficult and I commend you for taking that stance to to represent our people. So let's go in a little bit about core values. New Orleans politics
is it's crazy. It's a lot of shady stuff going on. A lot of you know we were built on corruption in New Orleans. So
being a state representative, what are some of your core values and how do you apply that in how do you represent and
also avoid what I would say would be a lot of temptation coming from, you know, people who don't want to see you play
fairly. Yeah. Yeah. So I, you know, I was in the state legislature as a state rep for
eight years and now I've been on the council for more than seven. So 15 plus years in elected office and in public
service here in the city of New Orleans. And I'll say this, when I when I got to the legislature, I was really like, wow,
with all these people who want to be your friend all of a sudden, you know, and um and there are people who I I I
think some kind of fall for that that but these these people are not really your friends. These are a bunch of
different lobbyists who just want something from you. These are people who want something from you. I've always
been, you know, very blessed and lucky that I keep a a very small core group of of family and friends around me and like
those are like my my real like my rocks, my my support um group and uh so you
know I I I kind of distanced myself from all of that. They used to call me the old lady in um in Baton Rouge even
though I was one of the youngest legislators. The reason for that is that I really wasn't interested in going on
all the dinners and whatever and the whining and dining. I like to really just be home like at 8:00. I like to go
there, do my work when I could. I'd like to come home and be with my husband, be with my family. And so they like to call
me the old lady because I didn't I wasn't about I wasn't all about I was I really was about the work. But you know,
one thing that you have to if you're going to be a good public servant that you have to do and force yourself to do
is that you're going to have to tell your friends no. You're going to have to tell your friends no. I mean, um, and you know,
that can be hard. It's like, you know, these are people who you may see socially, who you know well, and there's
different things that they may want, but you have a job to do. And so, if they're really your friends, they're going to
understand that you're doing your job and that you're going to have to tell them no. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely got to tell
the friends, no, let's shift a little g. Let's shift gears a little bit to education. New Orleans, we always have been
represented as this educational um test lab, if you will. Like they're doing a lot of experiments with
education down here. You got the charter system, you got public and privatized interest. Who's calling the shots?
What's your stance on education and how do you feel that we can grow as a a city
in terms of educating our youth? Yeah. Well, a a couple parts. One has to
do with, you know, um education, whether we're talking about high school and below high school. And then there's the
next piece that I want to talk about, uh which is really about vocational education and really having real
pathways to high wage employment. So, when it comes to um you know, our public
schools here in New Orleans, it's like no doubt about it, it's like it's all over the place and people don't even know exactly who to go to to get answers
to. There's school board, but school board doesn't control all the schools and there's all the different charters. And I and no doubt about it, I mean, I
think that makes it hard. What I would like to see is, you know, obviously all of our schools elevated, no doubt about
it, but more um more consistency in certain things that will help our
students, including transportation. I mean, the whole issue of busing and getting up in the, you know, 5:00 in the
morning to catch your like that I think is something that I think that the city could potentially partner with the
schools to help resolve and help improve. And I do believe that just overall that there needs to be greater
partnership with the Orleans Parish Schools and the city of New Orleans. what we are currently dealing with right
now with the city council trying to give the the money to the schools. We thought this was a really good start to
improving on that partnership. It's like, okay, the settlement, we can either fight you forever or at a time
when you need help. We can go ahead and and get this settlement done, give you all the money, and then you all can move
forward when you're dealing with this budget hole. Unfortunately, as you know, that's stuck in court and the mayor has
opposed it. And so that's that's a real problem. But there are other ways that we can partner including how do we use
school facilities and how do we use those school facilities and Nord facilities so that we can provide more
opportunities for our youth whether it's anything from after school programs to additional NORD programming like all of
these things to me um are common sense solutions but it takes someone actually
getting in there and committing people to do that work to create those partnerships for for this type of level
of collaboration to happen. But I see a lot of opportunities there for the city and the schools to work together. So
often people tell me, Helena, don't worry about the schools. Don't worry about the educational system in New Orleans. If you're mayor, you don't
really have anything to do with that. But I push back on that. It's like, but just because, you know, uh statutoily I
don't like I can't control what's going to be what what what's going to be taught in schools. I get that. But that
doesn't mean that I can't have involvement in the educational system in New Orleans. Yeah. Yeah. And when we think about
these after school programs or different things we can add to it, you know, there's a lot of funding concerns. Like
you may have a program that gets started and then 3 months later now it gets exhausted because of lack of funding.
Any ideas on how to get some more money pumping into our academic um system. So,
the city council recently started a youth and culture fund. And the reason why we do that is why we did that is
because we saw actually a lot of different nonprofits providing a lot of great services. Um, but they weren't
getting the level of funding that that they needed. And this is after school programs, any type of youth music
programs, uh, youth recreational programs, all those things. So, we started this about two years ago, and that's $7 million that we put in to
different nonprofits, and we did it again this year. And when I'm mayor, I'm really going to be a big promoter of
continuing this fund because there has been push back by this current administration saying it's too expensive. We shouldn't be doing it. But
I actually believe this is exactly what we need to be leaning into. There's so many great groups that are doing great
work. They're the boots on the ground actually getting the work done. But yes, I mean it's like especially with what
we're dealing with now with the affordability issues in New Orleans. I get it that not a lot of people have that extra cash to give to these
nonprofits. But if the city can help, they're already doing the work. let's just amplify their work.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And to kind of piggy back on that a little bit, you said earlier about not just
education, but okay K through 12 or vocational. Yes. So explain your stance on vocational. How do we connect these
opportunities to K12 and even college? Well, and that's the thing. It's it's I I think that the connections aren't
aren't occurring. Like for example, uh if you take a look at, you know, the
number of jobs that we need to be filled just at city hall, just at the Department of Public Works, we're having
a a really hard time in filling these jobs. But at the same time, we're not creating any workforce programs that are
going to directly be educational opportunities that are going to say, you know, um, hey, Brent, you know, this is
the this is the this is the program educational opportunity that we're going to give you. And then your guarantee is
this job, this highpaying job. And that's what we should be doing with different industries across the city,
whether it's digital, whether it's film, um, whatever it could be, whether it's clean energy, all these things. It's
those pathways that that aren't happening. So, there's all these different programs that are available. You can go to Delgato, take classes, you
can go get your CDL license, all these different things. But where is a real pathway? So, just because I got my CDL
license, is there is there a company right here that's guaranteed me a job? I mean, so same with, you know, if if I'm
um, you know, going into a a film program, is there a specific studio
that's that's guaranteed to help me? Because one of the things that I'm hearing with film, and this is really an opportunity where there it's a it's a
low barrier um to entry into the field and there's great opportunity for high wages, but you need to be trained. And
we get some big big motion pictures coming into New Orleans. Big motion pictures. But you know what they do?
They bring in their crews. They bring in their crews from California, wherever they're coming from, because they don't feel that we've got the skilled laborers
to be able to participate in these. And so where we're missing out then in the New Orleans economy are the midlevel
films because they're like, well, we like to go to other cities that have a trained up workforce. And so that would
be right there like a perfect example of the studios building up programs, partnering with Delgato. What we what
can we do to create these pathways? Because like I said, there's a lot of opportunity in film to make big money
and to excel, to go higher and higher. Even if you don't have any type of college degree or anything like that,
you can make a ton of money. Yeah. And has so many different opportunities for growth.
And it shifts gear. We're shifting gears into more of the economic development conversation and innovation. Who do you
see innovating in New Orleans? And we're going to transition that into how do we cultivate our talent to be
actually um what's the word I'm looking for experienced enough to get these jobs and retain them.
Yeah. So I think we have a lot of room for growth in obviously tech and digital media. We've seen some startups here in
New Orleans that have sold for tens of millions of dollars. So we have that network there. It's but it's how do we
expand it, you know, and then how do we create like Houston has done all these amazing STEM programs within their
schools that then directly are once again the pathways into getting into
STEM fields and um and and so that piece I believe can definitely be improved and
we're seeing some good collaboration with LCMC and Ashner in particular. So
you just saw Ashner uh do a partnership with Xavier University on a new medical school and I think that that's amazing
and we have the new biio district which is coming online which it was my legislation that helped create the tiff for the bio district so that we can
create real opportunity within the downtown area but once again I mean it's it's to your point it's if we're going
to build up the bio district and we're going to bring let's say a center of excellence it could be for whatever it could be for a center of excellence to
cure whatever disease it could be or it could be a center of Alexence excellence for heart health or for brain health or
whatever. Okay, great. So then what are we going to do to partner with our universities to make sure that we have
the skilled workers, the skilled employees, the skilled techs and whatever else is necessary to support
what the bio district is bringing. So, it's all well and good that we create these these new um job sites, but if you
don't have the workers to fill it, it's hard for these job sites then to succeed or they just bring in people from other
cities. Can you tell me a little bit about the bio district? Sure. So, the bio district was a
actually a a boundary within the downtown New Orleans area that was
created legislatively quite some time ago by Karen Carter Peterson. It was I
think it was even previously or right when I first got to the legislature. So around 2010, 2012, maybe a little bit
before that. And what it was meant to do was to start uh generating funding to
incentivize the creation of more uh med bioinnovation type of u uh work within
the downtown area. Unfortunately, what happened is that, you know, the board
and the bio district, there were some issues. I'm just going to say there were some issues. Okay, there were some
issues. So, all of those issues have now been rectified. There's a whole new
board. Um, they now have uh the opportunity to raise real dollars with a
tiff that we did, um, a local and a state tiff. And so they'll be generating millions of dollars to be able to
incentivize, you know, um, that level of development. And so I think that there's
a lot of opportunity there. But what I've told the bio district folks is, okay, if we're going to be really serious about this, then we really need
to start hiring an an executive director for the bio district that's going to be serious. wake up every morning, wake up
every morning with the task of making sure that the bio district is a success and staffing this bio district up with
people who are going to work with this ED to every day wake up every morning to how are we going to bring a center of excellence to the bio district, you
know, and so that's the next step. So, it's great that we're going to get this money, but you can't just have a board
trying to run, you know, what potentially could come to that bio district. You need someone who's going to be on point, on task every day on
what it's going to take to develop that area. One thing that I noticed about New Orleans is our we're big on history. So,
we literally make our money from being historic. And I think that stifles innovation to a
degree because we're incentivized to stay traditional. Do you think there's any way that New
Orleans can have the best of both worlds where we balance maintaining our identity but also innovating in certain
spaces? So, I'm going to disagree with you a little bit. I don't think it's that we're like so much about our history. I
think New Orleans is just a place that doesn't like change that much. That change, it's just it's just it's just uh
sometimes hard to stomach that change. And there's a there and and I will say this, you know, um there are sometimes
when I don't blame the people of New Orleans being very, you know, concerned about potential change because there
have been some things that have happened within our city that have not been, you know, great for the people of the city.
And so they they get concerned. Um, and that's why with everything that I do and
everything that I'll do as mayor is that it's all about transparency. It's all about bringing the people of New Orleans
with you as we're talking about these big projects, as we're talking about development, as we're looking at like
what can we do for some of our um communities where they are begging for economic development like New Orleans
East. I mean, what I can't believe is the fact that the economic development for department for the city of New
Orleans has one and a half employees. So, one employee, okay, as the director and then another one who works part-time
at the economic development department and part-time in other city agencies. That's it. That's great.
Do you think that that's enough to create the level of development and jobs that we need in the city of New Orleans?
And I get it that there's other departments that are working on this topic as well, but the economic development department in my opinion
should have individuals working there and including a person who should just be focused on New Orleans. Just focus on
New Orleans East once again, just like I talked about the bio district. This person is going to wake up every morning and say, "What can I do for New Orleans
East today? How are we going to bring more jobs and opportunity to New Orleans Easties? Like what needs to be focused on now?" And coordinating with city
agencies to make sure that stuff happens. And so, you know, whether it's finally bringing that grocery store to New Orleans East, I mean, that needs to
be Well, the thing is it's, you know, the the the economic development department now is going to study that
again. It's a $200,000 study on how to bring a a grocery store to New Orleans East. I can tell you how to bring a grocery store to New Orleans East.
You dedicate one person to this job and talk to all the grocerers and ask the grocerers, "What is it going to take?
What do we need to do?" Figure it out and just get it done. It doesn't have to be like, "What are we going to go study?" I can tell you what the sides
where it needs to go in. And is this to to your point is not rocket science and as a a former
reporter communication something that I kind of want to pivot to a little bit. You said that the transparency and
communication is really really important and you have a history or experience in
communication. So are there any things you would do differently to keep the people informed on a kind of a more regular scheduled
basis instead of us leaving it up to our assumption on what's going on behind the scenes? Well, I'll say this. I mean, um,
just with myself in the media, like I mean, it is very rare if I don't accept
an interview request. I mean, unless I'm just like that topic doesn't really have to do with me, you know, but but I I
mean, I really try to be as transparent as possible, sending out as many news releases and then um and then as mayor,
I think you have to have regularly scheduled news releases where you can allow the media to ask you whatever
questions you know they have. And I know that that's hard. It's hard and it's tricky, but I mean, if you're really
going to be transparent and bring the people along with you, um, they have to hear from you. And, you know, I think sometimes, um, it's hard to deliver
information that you know that the people of the city are not going to like, but it's better to be honest and
and let people know the truth than to not say anything at all. Because when you don't say anything at all, you know what happens? Then somebody else is
going to take that narrative and spin it around and make up rumors or whatever. So, I'd rather people just hear the truth from me
and it's like this is what it is and this is what I'm trying to do to fix it and and and go that route. But, you
know, as I've always tried to do, um I I handle a lot of the comms myself.
I just do. And so, but I plan on having a really strong uh comm's team just like I have um as a council member and not
only release of course information to the media, but do what I can to now do stuff on social media as well because
that piece is is huge. I mean, honestly, I put more information on my social media now than I send out in news
releases. I just do because it's like and I get a I get a longer platform, too. I mean, when I do interviews for
any of the big television stations here, I mean, the interviews that they show of me are 20 second bites, 30 second bites,
quick Helena sound. Yeah. And so, you it they and I'm like, what about the part where I said this or what about the
point I was trying to make? It's like you took this story into something else. and and you know obviously on social
media I can lay it all out and say it's this is what I'm talking about how to do right
yeah definitely and last question about innovation a quick one are you what do you do you have any thoughts on AI
artificial intelligence how it can apply to New Orleans in any way shape or form so I do think that uh you know AI is
becoming a greater tool for cities to use and so that certainly is something that I've started to explore but Bren
I'll be honest with you I I mean, at New Orleans City Hall, we are dealing with
like 1982 technology. It feels like still, I mean, so there are some major
technology upgrades that we need to begin with. Um, I mean, we have systems that just don't talk to each other. When
I was trying to do the DBE scorecard with the amazing group, the collaborative, and just so we could see
how many minority businesses are contracting with the city of New Orleans, what we realized is that, okay,
the system where you're bringing in the vendors is not talking to the system that is is um putting all the all the
vendors together as to you know, who's a minority business, who's in the and so there and and there was no way, and I
don't understand this because I'm not an IT person, because I was like, okay, we'll just have the systems talk to each other. They're like, "They can't, they
won't." And I was like, "How can they not?" And so then you have to then find a new system that you input both sides
and then merge them. So it was just the cost and all of these things. And I'm not an IT person, but I do think that,
you know, just like other cities are starting to use AI, you know, when you're, let's say, getting a bunch of
311 reports and how do you make sure that you're uh you you it's you get a
synopsis on like let's say there's a pothole on what on Bayou Road. Okay, so there's a pothole on Bayou Road and
instead of, you know, reading 26 reports on it, those 26 reports are made put
into one quick synopsis and you can be like, okay, this is this is this is this the last call was this. And it's just so I think it could be very helpful, but
it's just, you know, implementing that at city hall um I do believe will be a lift, but not
one that can't be done. It just it will be a bit of a challenge. It will be a challenge. It's it's funny you mentioned the pothole because that's
the perfect segue into our infrastructure conversation and this is one question that I've asked every candidate like how what's your plan to
solve the pothole problem? Yeah. So the good thing about um you know the the potholes and infrastructure
issues and and obviously they're major. I mean the whole thing with like construction projects lasting like
forever, you know, just like you know months at a time you can't get out of your driveway or you can't drive down your street. But so we know that there's
a model that works to actually get some of these big issues solved. And that model we actually saw during
Super Bowl. The model is everybody getting together, all departments working urgently toward
getting stuff resolved, working with outside agencies as well like Energy and
you know whoever else could be GNO Inc. or whoever else can assist us and also with our state and federal partners. And
so that type of collaboration and coordination urgently working in that way shouldn't
just be happening when we have an event like Super Bowl. It should be the standard which is actually one of the things that I had talked to the mayor
about you know a couple years back when we had a huge spike in violent crime back in 2021 2022 was like mayor you got
to get everybody at the table. You got to get everybody at the table. We got to treat this like a hurricane. We have to you know collaborate coordinate. And of
course, you know, I get it that they were like, "Sure, Helena, whatever. We're not doing that." But but that is how I would operate as as a mayor. That
just this this is a level of coordination and collaboration that will be the standard in my administration
because that's the only way to actually get things done. And by the way, guess what? That's what other parishes do and
that's how they're constantly solving problems. So when you see an issue, you recognize it. You've got everybody at
the table. What's everybody going to do to fix it? If a project on Bayou Road has all of a sudden taken four months
when it was supposed to take six weeks, all right, well, who are we getting there? Who what who's getting with the contractor? Where who are we finding?
Are we going to sue? Where's the law department? Do we need to sue? Like, what does their contract look like? But that's how that's how it works. If not,
you're going to be calling all different people, sending a variety of different emails. You may not get responses, and then nothing's going to happen. So
that's what that's that's the key, that level of coordination and collaboration, working urgently like there's always a
Super Bowl coming. I like that. That's a quotable right there. And what infrastructure projects would you prioritize outside of
potholes? You know, that's the regular small stuff. I would Yeah. Well, first of all, you know, the street repairs are still significant um
in some neighborhoods. We're just in Edgewood Heights in District D and their
street was supposed to be repaired, but now that money's gone and so we need to figure out it's like what are we going to do to to continue to fix streets that
were promised to get repairs and now we're having issues with is there going to be funding. So, you know, I think the
funding piece is going to be um a challenge, but still street repairs and getting those street repairs done I
think is really important. And then as far as you know um major infrastructure
issues we still need to take a look at um at and I know a lot of people don't
like to talk about this but it's it has to do with energy and grid hardening after Hurricane Ida. You know we lost
all the transmission lines coming into the city of New Orleans. And because of that we were stuck in the dark much
longer than we needed to. I made a promise after Hurricane Ida that I would make our city stronger so that we could
help defend ourselves more. um and be more sustainable if there were these level of storms and get the power back
on quicker. Everyone told me, Helena, this is going to be a billion-dollar investment. There's no way that the
rateayers in New Orleans can afford it. And and and I agreed with that. And so I said, we're not going to put it on the backs of rateayers. So instead, what we
did is I got a series of federal grants and also a big lawsuit that we had with Energy. We won and we applied that money
toward this hardening of the grid. But we have to make sure that those projects actually get off the ground and that
happens because so far they've been kind of slow to come around and and I get it. There's been all these types of delays. But as mayor, even though I would no
longer be the regulator of energy, I would certainly be pushing on energy to make sure that those projects which you
receive now hundreds of millions of dollars for to do in the city of New Orleans that those get done. And the good thing about those projects too is
that they bring jobs. They bring, you know, different types of um skilled workers um to these projects. And also
the other piece too which I think is really good is it adds um a new component um that we've been really
working on which are these micro grids which is creating different centers around the city that are a battery with
solar panels on top so that even if you lose power it's okay because solar you got the
reserve which is how we've set up the community lighouses across the city and so when there's a storm now these
community lighouses are ready to go uh you know the they're powered with solar power then they've got the battery and
the city isn't rushing around trying to find generators and put generators at community centers. And so expanding upon
that, expanding on those micro grids to me is also another key infrastructure project because we can put these in
senior centers. We can put these at grocery stores, we could put them if we need to, yeah, clinics. And so that's another piece
that I'm working on now. I'm I'm trying to secure $32 million roughly to get that done before my term on the city
council is over and working with groups like Together New Orleans to get that done. Oh, nice. Nice. Any thoughts on
environmental challenges or how New Orleans can lead in the environmental or global environmental efforts
considering that we have so many environmental challenges in Louisiana. Yeah. Well, one of, like I just
mentioned, you know, dealing with um clean energy, I think, is really important. And, you know, what can we do
to make um our buildings also more energy efficient? Don't even get me started on city hall, okay? I mean, that
thing is just like I mean, my windows aren't sealed. I can't tell if it's hot or cold outside because it's always a
crazy temperature in my office. Like, it's just so I mean, there's a lot of things that we can do with our
buildings. We're making our buildings um you know uh pushing our buildings to be
more energy efficient. Um making sure that you know we have more of these micro grids around I think is important
when we're talking about dealing with water. There's different u ways that we can uh create these retention ponds
around our city. Um which I think is important as well. Um, but you know,
overall it's it's it's really concerning right now because I'm seeing this movement on
the federal side to eliminate a lot of our grants that we were utilizing, for example, like electrification stations
and things like that. And so that is really concerning that, you know, we had
millions of dollars coming down here to certain nonprofits to help on some of these climate initiatives that those are
now gone, including, how about this? There's a group that helps us with tree planting. Okay. It's called um Soul and
they they've done tree planting in our city for the past 20 years. They've created these beautiful canopies across
our city and obviously this is really important because we have um you know parts of our city that are very very hot
during the summertime and so what can we do to increase tree planting? So, they had a million dollar grant or $2 million
grant from the Department of Forestry and unfortunately totally canled. And so, they did their final planting in
Holly Grove like two weeks ago and they're like, "Wait a minute." I think I
saw it on social media or something. Wow. And I mean the na the national media did a story on them too. And the
and one of the reasons why they were eliminated was there was like some kind of DEI provision and their contract that
they that they obviously were like pushing forward with and that they were excited to support
and because of that like they cut the whole thing. Yeah. Wow. Wow.
That's that's actually insane. And those things are is a lot of those things are
happening right now with the new administration. Yes. It's a lot of things and to move into the advocacy
which is going to be a mix between you know how do you advocate for us when it comes to things like this like how do
you go in and then fight the good fight of making sure that we don't lose resources and stuff to changing and
changes in leadership and we're also going to talk a little bit about your crime plan and how you're advocating for a safe New Orleans. So for first with
with advocacy as mayor you would need to advocate strongly for New Orleans. How do you plan to navigate that considering
that we're such a unique location or unique city? So, first let's talk about what's
happening on on the federal level because over the past 100 days it's been like wow. So, uh you know 100 days ago
or so or whenever this was you know we received notice that there would be a freeze of federal funding. Well, that
was like a little scary because the city of New Orleans roughly has about $450
million worth of federal money and grants. So can you imagine the hit that that would take uh to us and then we
have a lot of pass through dollars through the state and half of the state's budget is federal funding. So
you saw the drastic push back that occurred across the country and of course they were like oh never mind we're going to re we're not doing that
executive order anymore but still some grants are still getting cancelled right so then we started to see grants getting
cancelled um including for some of our USDA feeding programs that of course help kids in our city help families
living in poverty those getting eliminated um money for um victims of sexual assault um uh assistance for
victims of domestic violence I I mean all these different Yes. And in fact, they'll be coming to the city council
tomorrow to talk about these these issues and their impacts on their on the people who they serve and help. And so
then I was like, okay, this is this is crazy. And then um it was just like one thing after the next and finally I was
like, you know what, I'm going to go on this little bit of a talking circuit to just anywhere I went and and started to
tell people it's like, hey, what's happening up there is not just happening up there, okay? It's having implications on us here and this is how. And so even
today I was over at the at the Gust Highrise and and talking to the seniors
about the changes coming to Social Security and all and they were like, "Wait, what's going on?" And all this
confusion that's happening and potential changes that could happen to Medicare and Medicaid. And it's like and I ke I
keep telling everyone whether it's at a rally or whether it's to the seniors or whether it's, you know, to to students,
whoever it could be, you have to speak up. Yeah. Everybody has to tell the story of the impacts of all this because they want us
to be quiet. They want us to just not say anything and not do anything and let it happen. And only by pushing back do
they backtrack on this. Yeah. And and the thing is it's like you're seeing pushing back. It doesn't matter what
party you're in. You're seeing pushing back from his own party because of some of these moves are just
so crazy and insane. I mean the whole tariff thing. I mean it's like
everything from a cell phone. I have my cell phone with me right now. But a cell phone costs roughly, I don't know, $600,
$800, something like that. There's a potential that cell phones could cost $2,300. Who's going to get a
cell phone? Cars. You need a beeper or something. It's like we're talking about cars. Like immediately when the tariffs were
announced, all of a sudden cars, you know, went up at least $5,000. So if you were saving your pennies, saving your
dollars to go and buy that car, you finally are like, I I got the money. I'm going to get the car. I can put the down
payment down. Oh, wait, never mind. No, I can't. And then, you know, I I think the market went back up today, but I
mean, let me just tell you, I was one of those dummies that looked at their retirement account last week when and I was like, "Okay, well, I guess I I'm
just never going to not work." So, become a reporter again. Yeah. I mean, for real or something.
Yeah. So, a lot of things are happening. What are you going to do to kind of push back
on it? Like any thoughts that you've been having? I know you went on your speaking run. Yeah. So, for example, I talked about
the grants. One of the ways I've been pushing back on that is, okay, well, when you get a grant, you have to have an executed contract between the mayor
of New Orleans, the federal agency receiving that that's sending you the money, um, and then like a couple other
signatures. So, if you have a contract like that, I'm like, there is no way you can take our money. No way.
You just can't. I don't care that you have a new CEO, you can't say that. You can't send me a letter that you want the money back. They tried to do that with a
Department of Energy grant that we had. It was a $55 million grant to deal with what I just talked to you about, the the
grill enhancements. So, um, sent a letter. They're like, "Hey, because you had, you know, this
provision in here about including minority businesses or something like that. Um, your grant is now in jeopardy."
That's crazy. And so, I'm I'm on the phone with, you know, Energy and everybody else. And I
was like, "Hey, hey, we have signatures from everybody. This is an executed contract. This wasn't something that was
like under negotiation. We're still having No, no. This is done. Just because you have a new CEO doesn't mean you get to I just had to give you this
money back." Like, that's not happening. So, that's one way that we're pushing back. You know, if there's ever a a move
to try to yank some of our grants that way, it's like it's well, we're just going to fight it. And other cities are
fighting it um that way as well. Uh the second piece is of course, you know, you got to speak out. The sec the
third piece is remind people to vote. Voting is critical. And then don't forget that the Louisiana
legislature goes into session on April 14th. And so there are, you know, of
course some things there that we really need to to to take a look at and um push back against. Once again, there's going
to be changes to SNAP that the legislature is trying to move forward with saying that, you know, there's now
certain items that they're going to prohibit people from buying. I did see that. And it's like, look, I mean, it's like
people can't make choices as to, you know, what they should be buying for their families. It's like the
legislaturator is going to say what their children should have or what they should have. me. And so, you know, so there's there's there's going to be
legislation um that's not great. Um I worry about,
you know, that look, let me start by saying this. I think it's great to have partnerships with the state or when the state wants
to come in here and take over stuff, then I have a real problem. And so, um, I believe that my experience from when I
was a legislator, uh, has has really built in me, uh, that toughness and also
the level of, um, uh, of strategy that's necessary to deal with the folks up in
Baton Rouge. Um, in Baton Rouge, there were there were some bills that people thought I'd never
get through, including when I took on the NRA to help victims of domestic violence and ensure that when there is
somebody who's arrested for domestic violence that they are they are prohibited from having a firearm.
Everyone said there's no way you can pass that in Louisiana because the NRA is going to come out and you can't beat the NRA. Well, myself and bus loads of
women who came to the legislature, we got those bills through and we beat the NRA and created some of the strongest
protections for domestic violence in the state of Louisiana. But that's what it's going to take. It It's all of us together um working uh for what is best
for the people of New Orleans. Um that's going to get the message across and get things done the right way.
Nice. Nice. And to talk a little bit about crime for a second, I think it was last week uh you announced your crime
plan. for those who haven't um studied it, what is tell me a little bit about it. Quick little summary.
So, you know, we released our crime plan last week or the week before and then um tomorrow it'll be hot off the press. We
got our jobs and economic development plan. You got kind of a sneak preview on some of the things that are going to be in it. So, uh, but the crime plan that I
put out, um, is is really heavy on crime prevention, and I just believe that
there are some key things that we can do to make our city, um, safer by ensuring that crime doesn't even happen. So, I
talked about um the importance of ensuring that, you know, youth have opportunities. So, really revamping
NORD. Uh, youth opportunities meaning that we need to ensure that we have robust summer job programs every single
year. There used to only be 250 slots for summer jobs. I boosted that two years in a row now to a thousand and
also partnered with Youth Force NOLA to add an additional 750. But I truly believe we should double that. And so
having summer job opportunities um also key. One of the things I've always been pushing for and now as mayor I know I'll
be able to build is a re-entry hub for citizens returning from incarceration. It's a one-stop shop where you can get
all the services and referrals for what you may need all in one place. because right now we have great organizations
working to help re-entry citizens, but it's all over the place. So, when you're already dealing with transportation
issues, with housing issues, all these things, it's hard for you to get all the work. But what if we just had a hub
where you could go to one place and get the level of assistance that you needed? When it comes to um NOPD response times,
we're much better than we used to be. And I think one of the reasons why is because when Michelle Woodfork became
chief, she and I really started to lean in. And Chief Kirkpatrick has followed up with this as well, saying we cannot
recruit enough officers. Every every place around the country is having issues recruiting officers. So if we
can't recruit fast enough, what can we do to take paperwork stuff that's not an
emergency type of situation off of the plates of commissioned officers so that they can be responding faster to
emergencies, right? So, we started to bring in trained professionals to do non-emergency police reports. You get
your bike stolen from your garage, you don't need a commissioned police officer to come to you. There's a there's a disabled vehicle, you know, um on the
street, you don't need a commissioned officer sitting there with the with the with the a disabled vehicle. So, that's
how we've added, you know, we've added roughly 300 civilians to the NOPD to
take some of this paperwork, these non-emergency type of situations off of their plates and we've reduced response
times. um by two hours and now making the average response time an hour um
which is much better than it used to be. So those are just like some of the key things and obviously on the recruitment
thing it's just not happening fast enough for NOPD officers. So one of the things that I think is really important
now is you have to start looking at bringing in kind of experts where other
cities are doing. They're bringing in expert recruitment for uh uh firms to bring in different officers, national
talent, and um and so all that they're all that they're doing every day is making sure that these people get in.
Having two or three officers try to do this every day is just not it's we're stuck at like 940 in including recruits.
We're just stuck there. Like we can't seem to get beyond that point. So now it's time to take a different approach. Try something new because the same old
same old's not working. So, if there are any policies, well, if the voters could remember one thing from
this campaign, like one specific thing, what would you want them to remember about your initiatives or policies or
recommendations and why? I would say that if they can remember anything about um why I'm running for
mayor or this is that, you know, I I want to get this city where it's functioning. Okay? There's too many
things that are broken in the city and make it really difficult to live here. I told you before, I have the model to
actually get stuff done. And so now it's time to get the basics right. Make sure that you're when you're driving down the
street, the streets are smooth. Make sure when you call police that you know police officers respond. When you go to
city hall to get a permit from the safety and permits department. You're not waiting a year. Okay. So th that's what you can get and
expect from me that I'm going to get this city functioning again, make it easier to live here because if we can do
that, the sky's is the limit for the city of New Orleans. And honestly, that's the level of service that the people of New Orleans deserve.
Chat Replay is disabled for this Premiere.
